---
title: 2026-05-07 | RSD
created: 2026-05-14 10:45
author: Kristian Benestad
section-id: unhcr_meetings
sort: 101
---

# UNHCR - regular meeting 

## Data
|Date|Value|
|--:|:----|
|**Date:**|7 May 2026|
|**Time start:**|14:00|
|**Time end:**|16:00|
|**Participants - CAP:**|Matt, Mariah, Marc, Kristian|
|**Participants - UNHCR:**|Keane, Swarnabh, Mint (remote), Firas Jaber (partially, remote)|
|**Venue:**|UNESCAP, hybrid|

## Agenda

*Agenda points as proposed to UNHCR before the meeting:*

- Staffing - CAP/UNHCR
- Decisions - UNHCR capacity, expectations for the future, timelines
- UNHCR Trends and forecasts - applicants, decision-making, etc.
- Legal submissions - continuing our discussions on most effective submissions; any country-specific guidance?
- NSM - developments, decisions, capacity, health insurance, etc.
- Resettlement - trends and expectations, complementary pathways (e.g., education opportunities), can applicants provide info in support of a resettlement decision ahead of time? [if relevant, otherwise we can take this with the relevant personnel] 
- UNHCR current procedures (including monthly correspondence submission, appeal deadline and submission, transcript renewal request, RSD interview settings (remote/in person)

## Meeting notes
*Notes captured by Marc, edited by Kristian.*

### Digital Gateway

_Portal time frame:_

- 2 years is based on staffing issues (was previously 5 times larger) and issue with interpreters
- 2 years is the upper end
- The gateway doesn’t reset the clock on people who applied prior to the gateway
- People were previously submitting statements and evidence at the outset, and the portal has no ability to provide this. How do you see this aspect of the process?
- There are spaces for disability and security concerns as that is of importance. However there is a document submission area. Not encouraged to submit claim through the gateway. The aim is to make everything more quantified, instead of qualified with claim substance. Don’t have the capacity to go through each claim during the registration process.

**IMPORTANT:** *If no phone number, can still use the email.*

- UNHCR says you can reuse a phone number

_Has granting someone power of attorney been implemented?_

- Yes, you can delegate your account to someone manage (this is done after registration)

_Quantifying request for registration_

- How are security issues weighed, as most people would say that they have security issues

- Internal discussions with agreed upon prioritizations
- CAP should continue what they’re doing with regards to flagging security issues that are legit vs general

_Any changes/updates expected to the portal in the next few months?_
- No major updates

_Prioritisation questions_

- You can submit forms for disability, security, and health concerns. It’s not “or”
- Matt said that there’s three options for the security option and you can only click one
- This is correct that you can only select one in the drop down
- Asked if this could be a multiple choice to include more than one
  - This will be discussed internally

_Do you have any numbers of applications?_

- Can’t share daily counts but maybe later a rough indicator
- Matt: In PWG, UNHCR said 200 applications in the first 48 hours.


### CAP/UNHCR Capacity and Focus


- UNHCR is in the same place, down to 2 registration, 2 officers, 2 reviewers. Hope this is status quo but no guarantee. Have fundraised to maintain

- Said we can go to UNHCR for recommendation support with funding


- Interpreter outreach isn’t going well. The retainer contracts that had previously submitted are forbidden due to a global freeze.

- This is impacting interviews and decisions. One thought is allowing CAP to use our own interpreters if we have for notifications (note: I think that’s what he said)
- _Does this mean you have a lot of decisions made that are waiting for notifications?_
  - Yes. In the 10’s between first instance and appeal

_Would police be notified of numbers for decisions before anyone else (for when people are told that immigration officers are telling them that they’ve been rejected)?_

- There shouldn’t be a way for them to know about decisions. They’ll look into it


### Applicants not receiving final rejection letters (they were called)

- Matt is providing the case numbers

- Only time an applicant doesn’t receive a letter is if they tell UNHCR that they no longer want to talk to them after notification

- Keane: Will look into the system as well


_Sometimes notifications not in the emails. Any reason why? Example was linked cases_

- It’s generated from the system, will take a look to see if there’s any glitches
- Matt: There’s more than one example
- Kristian: Will look into Ourangzaib specifically


Timelines

- For registration, flag when there seems to be imminent risks (possible risks within the next couple of months), but for standard cases, don’t
- For interviews and decisions, can still flag post 6 months

_How about those in IDC?_

- Trying to get to them as soon as they can, depends on interpreters


_Some have sponsors for resettlement but need registration or refugee determination to move forward. Is this something that should be flagged?_

- Good to flag. Would help if there’s a concrete indication that resettlement is viable


### Burmese resettlement

- Officially, only camp residents that can officially depart. It would be for the resettlement country to arrange with the Thai MFA


### Those in shelter for human trafficking but haven’t received a card. Is there a timeline?

- They think they gave cards (took a while until the next time they were there). Will check


### High profile cases

_Faraz Pervaiz_ 

- No updates. All are complex cases. Faraz case is being reviewed at bureau and HQ.
  - Can Faraz’s family’s cases receive adjudication outside of this?
  - Yes, they can have a look at linked cases

_Le Chi Thanh_ 
- Interpreter is an issue and going through his 20 years of experience at the facility. Might need a few more interviews to cover everything

- We should be invited to the interview at IDC, remotely potentially

_Ahmed Hassan Yusef: Has sponsorship to Canada because embassy wants to verify his refugee status. Wanted to check if update or timeframe of notification_
- Cancellation proceedings began in 2019. He was notified. Pending a final decision


_Pakistani Christian case rejected on appeal without appeal decision, and per standards there should be an appeal decision as there was substantial new evidence_

- **If there’s new evidence that would alter the decision, an interview would be granted.** Not sure about this case. That said, if the new evidence doesn’t change persecution or IFA, an interview isn’t required. A reopening request could occur if they don’t agree

- Mint: I**f new evidence, it would help to mention why this new evidence exists now (and how obtained) and wasn’t presented to UNHCR at first instance**

_MSFJ_

- Reviewed at the headquarters


### Details about NSM recommendations_
- Can share that there were 15 cases, included 12 Palestinians. These cases will hopefully be endorsed by the screening committee


### Resettlement


Recently met with Australia about how they’re doing this. Is there anyone other than Australia that’ resettling
- Australia (reduced substantially globally), Canada, New Zealand (Japan and Korea are only from the camps)
- No whispers of other countries stepping up

## Action items
- [ ] Matt: Look into situation for human trafficking victims in shelter.
- [ ] Kristian: Look into OURANGZAIB's rejection
- [ ] Mariah: Write memo to LCT about process and further assistance
- [ ] MSFJ: Reach out to Laura about review, consider further steps.

